[Term Entry] C Arrays: Dynamic Array (#6044)
Codecademy/docs: content/c/concepts/arrays/terms/dynamic-arrays/dynamic-arrays.md

---
Title: 'Dynamic Arrays'
Description: 'A dynamic array in C refers to an array whose size can be adjusted during runtime.'
Subjects:
  - 'Code Foundations'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Arrays'
  - 'Lists'
  - 'Variable Types'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-c'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> A **dynamic array** in C refers to an array whose size can be adjusted during runtime. Unlike static arrays, whose size must be fixed at compile time, dynamic arrays offer flexibility by utilizing memory allocation functions from the `stdlib.h` library, such as [`.malloc()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/memory-management/malloc), [`.calloc()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/memory-management/calloc), [`.realloc()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/memory-management/realloc), and [`free()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/memory-management/free).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A **dynamic array** in C refers to an array whose size can be adjusted during runtime. Unlike static arrays, whose size must be fixed at compile time, dynamic arrays offer flexibility by utilizing memory allocation functions from the `stdlib.h` library, such as [`malloc()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/memory-management/malloc), [`calloc()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/memory-management/calloc), [`realloc()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/memory-management/realloc), and [`free()`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/c/memory-management/free).
```

Dynamic arrays are useful when the required size of an array cannot be determined in advance. They allow efficient memory management by allocating or freeing memory as needed, avoiding wastage or insufficient allocation.

## How to Implement a Dynamic Array

To implement a dynamic array, the following steps are involved:

### 1. **Allocate Memory**

> Use `.malloc()` or `.calloc()` to allocate memory for the array dynamically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `malloc()` or `calloc()` to allocate memory for the array dynamically.
```

Reviewer: same comment as above

> #### `.malloc()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `malloc()`
```

> This function is used to allocate a block of memory on the heap at runtime. It takes a single argument, which specifies the size of the memory block in bytes. The memory allocated by `.malloc()` is not initialized, meaning the contents are undefined.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function allocates a block of memory on the heap at runtime. It takes a single argument specifying the size of the memory block in bytes. However, the memory allocated by `malloc()` is not initialized, meaning it contains garbage values.
```

> The syntax for using `.malloc()` is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax for using `malloc()` is as follows:
```

```pseudo
int *arr = (int *)malloc(size * sizeof(int));
```

> #### `.calloc()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### `calloc()`
```

> This function is also used to allocate memory dynamically, but it differs from `.malloc()` in that it initializes the allocated memory to zero. It takes two arguments: the number of elements and the size of each element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This function also allocates memory dynamically, but unlike `malloc()`, it initializes the allocated memory to zero. It takes two arguments: the number of elements and the size of each element.
```

> The syntax for using `.calloc()` is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax for using `calloc()` is as follows:
```

```pseudo
int *arr = (int *)calloc(size, sizeof(int));
```

> > **Note**: Both functions `.malloc()` and `.calloc()` return a pointer to the allocated memory. If memory allocation fails, they return `NULL`, so it's important to check if the allocation was successful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: Both functions `malloc()` and `calloc()` return a pointer to the allocated memory. If memory allocation fails, they return `NULL`, so it's important to check if the allocation was successful.
```

### 2. **Access and Modify**

> Use the allocated memory like a normal array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once memory is allocated, use the pointer like a normal array to store and modify values.
```

### 3. **Resize the Array**

> Use `.realloc()` to adjust the size of the array if necessary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `realloc()` to adjust the array size if necessary.
```

> The syntax for using `.realloc()` is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The syntax for using `realloc()` is as follows:
```
